Q1. What is Git?
Ans: Git is a distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency. It allows multiple developers to work on the same project simultaneously.

Q2. What do you understand by the term ‘Version Control System’?
Ans: A Version Control System (VCS) is a software tool that helps manage changes to source code or files over time. It tracks revisions, facilitates collaboration among developers, and allows reverting to previous versions if needed.

Q3. What is GitHub?
Ans: GitHub is a cloud-based hosting service for managing Git repositories. It provides a web-based graphical interface, collaboration tools, and features like issue tracking, code review, and CI/CD integration.

Q4. Mention some popular Git hosting services:
Ans: 
1. GitHub
2. GitLab
3. Bitbucket
4. SourceForge
5. Azure DevOps

Q5. Different types of Version Control Systems:
Ans: 
1. Local Version Control System: Maintains version control on a local machine.
2. Centralized Version Control System (CVCS): Stores all versions in a central server (e.g., Subversion, CVS).
3. Distributed Version Control System (DVCS): Each developer has a local copy of the entire repository (e.g., Git, Mercurial).

Q6. What benefits come with using Git?
Ans: 
1. Distributed development: Every developer has a complete copy of the repository.
2. High performance for branching, merging, and committing.
3. Powerful branching and merging model.
4. Enables collaboration across teams.
5. Tracks changes with detailed commit history.
6. Works offline for many operations.

Q7. What is a Git repository?
Ans: A Git repository is a virtual storage of a project. It allows you to track and manage changes to your project files and provides a history of the modifications.

Q8. How can you initialize a repository in Git?
Ans: To initialize a repository in Git, use the following command in the terminal:
```bash
git init
```
This command creates an empty Git repository in the current directory.
